# What's new in Gluu Server v3

## Gluu Server 3.1.x
Gluu Sever 3.1.x offers improved performance and functionality. 

### OpenID Conect Provider Re-certification
Gluu Server 3.1.x is [certified for all five OpenID Connect Provider flows](http://openid.net/certification/): Basic OP, Implicit OP, Hybrid OP, Config OP, Dynamic OP.  

### UMA 2.0
Gluu 3.1.x is the first commercially supported IAM server to implement the [UMA 2.0 specification](https://docs.kantarainitiative.org/uma/wg/oauth-uma-grant-2.0-05.html). UMA now aligns completely with OAuth 2.0. It also re-defines the claims gathering flow, enabling developers to implement multi-step consent, user-interactions, and stepped-up authentication flows. 

[Read the docs](https://gluu.org/docs/ce/3.1.2/admin-guide/uma/)

### Super Gluu out-of-the-box
The Gluu Server 3.1.x supports push notifications for our free and secure two-factor authentication (2FA) mobile app, [Super Gluu](https://super.gluu.org), out-of-the-box. Simply [follow the docs](https://gluu.org/docs/ce/3.1.2/authn-guide/supergluu) to enable Super Gluu authentication.

### 2FA Credential Management
Gluu Server 3.1.x includes supports for a new open source web application called Credential Manager. Credential Manager is a user facing app that enables people to register and delete ("self-service") U2F credentials, Super Gluu devices, OTP devices, SMS phone numbers, and even change their password (only if passwords are stored in the local Gluu LDAP).

### Caching
To improve performance, the Gluu Server now caches short-lived objects, like the code in the authorization code flow. This reduces the number of writes to the LDAP database, increasing the performance of your underlying directory services. 

### From Seam to Weld
The Jboss Seam J2EE framework was EOL. We updated to the Weld framework, which resulted in some of the URL's changing (now shorter and more clear). Clients that use the discovery endpoint (i.e. `https://<hostname>/.well-known/openid-configuration`) should be ok. But watch out for any clients that may have hard coded endpoints. 

### Localization
The Gluu Server 3.1.x includes language packs. To learn more, or to contribute translations back to the project, check the [localization docs](./developer-guide/localization.md). 


## Gluu Server 3.x

Gluu Sever 3.x is more modern, faster, and easier to manage.

### Jetty replaces Tomcat as servlet container

Here are some of the reasons we made this change:

 - Memory management: easier to allocate memory per app.
 - Restart: Easier to restart individual components without affecting
   others. For example, Asimba requires more restarts when certain
   configuration is updated.
 - Logs: `wrapper.log` was getting too busy. It's better to have
   the top-level log smaller. See [logs management](./operation/logs.md) 
   for more informatoin.
 - Network: oxAuth is Internet facing; oxTrust is an admin application
   which may be internal facing only.
 - Docker: Deploying each application in it's own servlet container 
   aligns with our strategy to deploy each application in its own 
   container.

### OpenLDAP replaces OpenDJ

The Gluu Server uses LDAP for persistence. The Gluu Server will continue to support 
several LDAP servers (including OpenDJ), but will now ship with OpenLDAP. Below are a few
reasons.

 - OpenLDAP has a better license, and [Symas](https://symas.com/) (the company behind OpenLDAP),
   has a clear commitment to free open source software.
 - OpenLDAP's LMDB backend is super fast and crash-resistant. 
 - Tired of fighting with Java garbage collection.
 - [Affordable support options](https://symas.com/services/subscriptions/) from Symas.
 - Proxy Capabilities: using OpenLDAP Gold, which is a commercial 
   distribution from Symas, data can be organized into different replicated 
   topologies, and the proxy can be used to route operations. This strategy
   can increase the write performance of the LDAP service. 

### Shibboleth IDP version 3

 - Re-architected to use Spring
 - Version 2.0 was end of life
 - For more information, see the [Release Notes](https://wiki.shibboleth.net/confluence/display/IDP30/ReleaseNotes)

### New Features

 - Passport.js makes it easy to offer your users social login at more than 300 websites and consumer IDPs. 
See the [Passport](./authn-guide/passport.md) docs for more information.
 - One-Time Password (OTP) authentication: You asked for it! Now it's easy to authenticate users with any standard HOTP or TOTP OATH 
   software, like Google Authenticator. [Read the docs](./authn-guide/otp.md).
 - Centralized logging--useful for clustered deployments.
 - Improved audit logging capabilities for OAuth 2.0
 - External Logging is made easy using FluentD 3.5
 - Migrated Weld 3.0.0
