# Gluu Server Maintenance
Gluu Server Community Edition (CE) requires some basic maintenance by the administrator like any other server-side service. This section contains some routine maintenance tasks which may be already a part of the institutional server maintenance.

## Backups
It is strongly recommended to take backups of the Virtual Machine (VM) Gluu Server is running on. VM backups/snapshots will ensure that the settings are saved properly within the backup. Gluu recommends checking the VM backups at regular intervals and if possible take them from time to time for ensuring the lowest maintenance window if anything goes wrong.

As a second line of backup, the `/opt/gluu-server-x.x.x/` folder can be tarballed and kept as a bakcup. This is not the ideal mechanism, but it might come in handy if VM backups are not possible or not available. Please remember to **exclude** the following folders while tarballing the Gluu Server folder:

- `/gluu-server-x.x.x/proc/`
- `/gluu-server-x.x.x/mnt/`
- `/gluu-server-x.x.x/sys`
- `/gluu-server-x.x.x/dev`

These folders will result in _100%_ disk usage if gluu server is running. However, if the server is stopped, then tarballing the folder should not cause any problems in the host machine.

!!! Note
    Checking the backup status will ensure the lowest downtime if there is no failover server available.

## OS Update
It is a good practice to keep the host operating system (OS) up to date, but there are some steps that must be followed to ensure that the update does not disrupt the service. Gluu strongly recommends contacing the support team before performing any upgrade or update to the host OS. This step will give Gluu the time to familiarize with the changes made in the new version and prepare for any situation that may arise after upgrade. If there is a development server available for the institution, the upgrade should be performed there to discover any changes in the system.

!!! Note
    Upgrade or update to operating system should be performed in the `dev` box

## Logs
Gluu Server and the components used therein produces log files like any other service. It is recommended to clean out logs periodically to avoid running out of space in the VM. The time frame for the cleanup will depend on the volume of data Gluu Server is handling and the level of logs selected. Additionally the administrator can also clean out the logs generated by the host operating system if necessary.

!!! Note
    Please clean out the log files from time to time to avoid running out of space.

## Temporary Files
The `jetty` server stores temporary files in the Gluu Server `chroot` environment. If there is a change in the `war` file or a new file is deployed, this behaviour is observed. Please clean out the redundant temporary files from the `jetty` temporary folder to avoid any unfavorable circumstance. 

!!! Note
    Please clean out the redundant temporary files from the `/opt/jetty-9.3/temp/` folder
