# What's new in Gluu Server v4

## Version 4.0

### Persistence redesign
In 4.0, the Gluu Server persistence layer is more modular. Previously LDAP was tightly bundled. Now, any persistence mechanism can be supported with a jar file that implements the base Persistence API. The desired mechanism can then be specifed in `gluu.properties`. [Learn more](./installation-guide/persistence.md).   

### Extensive Passport redesign
4.0 features better support for user attribute mappings and transformations during inbound identity workflows, and improved support for external OpenID Connect Providers ("inbound OpenID"). In addition, all Passport configurations can now be performed in the oxTrust admin UI. [Read the docs](./authn-guide/passport.md).

### No version numbers in packages
Previously, the version number was included in the Gluu Server package, e.g. `gluu-server-3.1.6`. Starting in 4.0, the latest stable Gluu Server package name is simply `gluu-server`. This simplifies version upgrades, server operations, and improves interoperability between Gluu products.

### More SAML IDP features
NameIDs can now be [configured inside oxTrust](./admin-guide/saml.md#configure-nameid-in-oxtrust), and [SAML ACRS parameters](./admin-guide/saml.md#authncontextclassref-support) are now supported, which, when used in conjunction with [force authentication](./admin-guide/saml.md#force-authentication), enables stepped-up authentication for SAML SPs. 

### Support for RADIUS authentication
The Gluu Server now supports two options for RADIUS authentication to enable SSO and 2FA to non-web applications like SSH, VPN, and Wi-Fi: 

- [Gluu RADIUS](./admin-guide/radius-server/gluu-radius.md): a free, single-threaded RADIUS implementation based on the TinyRADIUS server; and...  

- [Radiator](./admin-guide/radius-server/gluu-radiator.md): a robust, commercial AAA server built for ISPs and carriers.

### Improved clean up service
Introduced in CE 3.1.6, `cleanService` is now more configurable. This service periodically removes unused and expired cache and session-related database entries to improve server performance. [Read the docs](./operation/cleanup.md).

### Updated libraries and components 
4.0 includes the latest version of Shibboleth, updated Java libraries and Jetty, and Oracle JDK has been replaced with Amazon Corretto, an open source, production-ready distribution of OpenJDK. 

### Minor bug fixes and feature improvements
A variety of bug fixes and UX improvements are included with the latest release. See our [complete release notes](https://gluu.org/docs/ce/4.0/release-notes/#changes).
