# What's new in Gluu Server v3

## Gluu Server 3.1.4

### 3.1.x to 3.1.4 in-place upgrades
Our upgrade script now supports "in place" upgrades from Gluu 3.1.x to 3.1.4: it will update necessary LDAP entries, change configuration files, and replace war files for installed services.

### More inbound identity improvements
Gluu 3.1.4 supports inbound OpenID Connect (i.e. allowing users to authenticate at external OPs), account linking via user email, and multivalued attributes in user profiles. In additon, configuring Passsport and adding or changing strategies no longer requires service restarts.

### oxAuth enhancements
We've made a number of improvements to the heart of Gluu! We've added: protections for brute force attacks by adding a delay after every third failed authentication attempt; client-side checks to prevent possible signing of expired JKS keys; many minor authentication script UI and code fixes; support for LDAP caching; and more precise polling interval options to improve the efficiency of LDAP connection pool checks.

### oxTrust improvements
We've streamlined and added features to the oxTrust admin GUI to improve usability. Client secrets are now auto-generated by default, the password reset flow has been improved, the user import process now supports custom attributes, and more.

### Better logging
Logs in Gluu 3.1.4 are more clear and useful. Logging now happens daily instead of hourly, unnecessary logs have been removed, and log levels are now a configurable parameter.

### LDAP password migrations from BCRYPT to SSHA
Our Gluu OpenDJ LDAP server now supports BCRYPT password hashing, making it easier to migrate between OpenLDAP and OpenDJ as needed.

### New Shibboleth IDP3 extension
Gluu 3.1.4 now leverages the Shibboleth IDP as an extension, enabling oxAuth to send requests directly to oxAuth without calling an intermediary like `auth-code.jsp`. 

### JWT Access Tokens
oxAuth can now be configured to return a signed JWT access token from the <code>/token</code> endpoint on a per client basis.

### Close browser to kill session
For shared computer access situations, it can be handy to kill a user’s session when a browser is closed. In 3.1.4, instead of waiting for a set amount of time to kill a session, you can set `sessionIdLifetime` to `-1` to kill the session in the OP when the user closes the browser.

## Gluu Server 3.1.3

### Upgraded system components and libraries
We've upgraded many dependencies and system components to their latest versions to remediate known vulnerabilities.

### Easier inbound identity
In 3.1.3 you can expect better usability and quicker integrations with external identity providers. Make sure to install Passport.js during Gluu installation to take advantage of the improved functionality.

### UMA updates
3.1.3 includes a number of UMA related updates, including added support for sending extra parameters during UMA permission ticket requests [#664](https://github.com/GluuFederation/oxAuth/issues/664), and the RPT introspection endpoint now returns in its response all claims stored in the persisted claims token (PCT) [#687](https://github.com/GluuFederation/oxAuth/issues/687).

### More SCIM server features and a new SCIM client.
Gluu 3.1.3 includes updates and new features to its SCIM server, as well as a completely re-written SCIM client.

### Custom message properties in oxAuth & oxTrust
The text for oxAuth and oxTrust is now stored in the following dedicated file: /opt/gluu/jetty/oxauth|identity/custom/i18n, making it easier to update and manage. [#735](https://github.com/GluuFederation/oxAuth/issues/735).

### Better interception script debugging in oxTrust
Custom scripts are now checked for syntax and errors in the UI itself rather than waiting several seconds for an exception to appear in the oxauth_scripts log. [#821](https://github.com/GluuFederation/oxTrust/issues/821)

### Automatically restore interception script parameters
We’ve updated the custom scripts controller to restore script variables from a session automatically before calling the next script method. [#675](https://github.com/GluuFederation/oxAuth/issues/675)

### Improved interception scripts
We’ve reviewed scripts for stability, updated dependencies, and have also added support for combining multiple existing scripts, for instance our new [CAS + Duo Security script](https://github.com/GluuFederation/oxAuth/tree/master/Server/integrations/cas2_duo).

### Remotely debug interception scripts
Custom scripts can be tricky to write and test. In 3.1.3, we've added documentation to help you [remotely debug your custom scripts](./developer-guide/script-debugging).

### Improved upgrade scripts
We are working hard to make upgrading Gluu easier and faster. Some of the improvements we've made include:

- A new progress bar
- Export data without stopping Gluu
- Faster importing and exporting of data
- Custom OpenDJ schema files are automatically backed up during migration to a new installation
- Migration of custom pages have been disabled due to incompatibility across Gluu Server versions
- Upon migration, AuthenticationMode will be set to auth_ldap_server to reduce the chance of lockout.

## Gluu Server 3.1.x
Gluu Sever 3.1.x offers improved performance and functionality. 

### OpenID Connect Provider Re-certification
Gluu Server 3.1.x is [certified for all five OpenID Connect Provider flows](http://openid.net/certification/): Basic OP, Implicit OP, Hybrid OP, Config OP, Dynamic OP.  

### UMA 2.0
Gluu 3.1.x is the first commercially supported IAM server to implement the [UMA 2.0 specification](https://docs.kantarainitiative.org/uma/wg/oauth-uma-grant-2.0-05.html). UMA now aligns completely with OAuth 2.0. It also re-defines the claims gathering flow, enabling developers to implement multi-step consent, user-interactions, and stepped-up authentication flows. 

[Read the docs](https://gluu.org/docs/ce/3.1.2/admin-guide/uma/)

### Super Gluu out-of-the-box
The Gluu Server 3.1.x supports push notifications for our free and secure two-factor authentication (2FA) mobile app, [Super Gluu](https://super.gluu.org), out-of-the-box. Simply [follow the docs](https://gluu.org/docs/ce/3.1.2/authn-guide/supergluu) to enable Super Gluu authentication.

### 2FA Credential Management
Gluu Server 3.1.x includes support for a new open source web application called [Credential Manager](https://gluu.org/docs/creds). Credential Manager is a user facing app that enables people to register and delete ("self-service") 2FA credentials, including U2F secrurity keys, Super Gluu devices, OTP app (like Google Authenticator), SMS phone numbers, and even change their password (if passwords are stored in the local Gluu LDAP).

### Caching
To improve performance, the Gluu Server now caches short-lived objects, like the code in the authorization code flow. This reduces the number of writes to the LDAP database, increasing the performance of your underlying directory services. 

### From Seam to Weld
The Jboss Seam J2EE framework was EOL. We updated to the Weld framework, which resulted in some of the URL's changing (now shorter and more clear). Clients that use the discovery endpoint (i.e. `https://<hostname>/.well-known/openid-configuration`) should be ok. But watch out for any clients that may have hard coded endpoints. 

### Localization
The Gluu Server 3.1.x includes language packs. To learn more, or to contribute translations back to the project, check the [localization docs](./developer-guide/localization.md). 


## Gluu Server 3.x

Gluu Sever 3.x is more modern, faster, and easier to manage.

### Jetty replaces Tomcat as servlet container

Here are some of the reasons we made this change:

 - Memory management: easier to allocate memory per app.
 - Restart: Easier to restart individual components without affecting
   others. For example, Asimba requires more restarts when certain
   configuration is updated.
 - Logs: `wrapper.log` was getting too busy. It's better to have
   the top-level log smaller. See [logs management](./operation/logs.md) 
   for more informatoin.
 - Network: oxAuth is Internet facing; oxTrust is an admin application
   which may be internal facing only.
 - Docker: Deploying each application in it's own servlet container 
   aligns with our strategy to deploy each application in its own 
   container.

### Added support for OpenLDAP

The Gluu Server uses LDAP for persistence. The Gluu Server will continue to support 
several LDAP servers (including OpenDJ), but will now offer support for OpenLDAP. Below are a few
reasons we like OpenLDAP.

 - OpenLDAP has a better license, and [Symas](https://symas.com/) (the company behind OpenLDAP),
   has a clear commitment to free open source software.
 - OpenLDAP's LMDB backend is fast and crash-resistant. 
 - [Affordable support options](https://symas.com/services/subscriptions/) from Symas.
 - Proxy Capabilities: using OpenLDAP Gold, which is a commercial 
   distribution from Symas, data can be organized into different replicated 
   topologies, and the proxy can be used to route operations. This strategy
   can increase the write performance of the LDAP service. 

### Shibboleth IDP version 3

 - Re-architected to use Spring
 - Version 2.0 was end of life
 - For more information, see the [Release Notes](https://wiki.shibboleth.net/confluence/display/IDP30/ReleaseNotes)

### New Features

 - Passport.js makes it easy to offer your users social login at more than 300 websites and consumer IDPs. 
See the [Passport](./authn-guide/passport.md) docs for more information.
 - One-Time Password (OTP) authentication: You asked for it! Now it's easy to authenticate users with any standard HOTP or TOTP OATH 
   software, like Google Authenticator. [Read the docs](./authn-guide/otp.md).
 - Centralized logging--useful for clustered deployments.
 - Improved audit logging capabilities for OAuth 2.0
 - External Logging is made easy using FluentD 3.5
 - Migrated Weld 3.0.0
