# What's new in Gluu Server 3.1.x
We've made some significant updates to Gluu Sever 3.1 to improve performance and functionality. 

## OpenID Conect Provider Re-certification
We certififed this version against the latest [OpenID Connect Provider tests](http://openid.net/certification/).  

## UMA 2.0
Gluu is the first commercially supported IAM server to support the UMA 2.0 specification. UMA now aligns completely with OAuth 2.0. It also re-definies the claims gathering flow, enabling developers to implement multi-step consent, user-interactions, or stepped-up authentication flows. See the new "Claims Gathering" interception script (included in the default distribution of the Gluu Server) if you want to implement a post-authentication authorization flow.  

## Caching
To improve performance, the Gluu Server now caches short-lived objects, like the code in the authorization code flow. This reduces the number of writes to the LDAP database, increasing the performance of your underlying directory services. 

## From Seam to Weld
The Jboss Seam J2EE framework was EOL. We updated to the Weld framework, which resulted in some of the URL's changing (now shorter and more clear). Clients that use the discovery endpoint (i.e. `https://<hostname>/.well-known/openid-configuration`) should be ok. But watch out for any clients that may have hard coded endpoints. 

## Localization
The Gluu Server 3.1.x includes language packs. If you want to help us by providing a translation, please check the [localization docs](./developer-guide/localization.md) to learn how to contribute translations. 
